[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna talk about
lifecycle methods that actually really
are important in React.
However, personally I try and
minimize how much I use them.
And actually I went through this
entire workshop creating and
realized I'd never made
any lifecycle methods.
I'm like, holy shit,
this is really bad because I
really have to know these things.
So I just kind of tacked it on
here to the end really quick.
Actually it's out of a good
example of when you would be passing
context both on the server and the client.
Notice how we're passing the data.shows
in various places in our app.
This is typically something that
you request from a server, but
if you have some sort of seed value, just
make sure that that's loaded separately.
That's a better answer to that question.
So just make sure that you're kind of
loading it into the side using requires
rather than just only using Ajax, right.
Cuz if you're only loading
Ajax is this dynamic, sorry,
the server side rendering is decidedly
less useful because you're gonna load
an empty page which is not
very compelling, right.
You want to show the user
content as fast as possible,
that's what I want to talk about.
Okay, lifecycle methods.
So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna add
the live IMDB rating to our details page.
So go to your details page, and what we're
gonna do here is we're gonna
make a request to an API.
The OMDB API, which is actually
just a reflection of IMDB,
and we're going to request
the rating from it.
So, we're gonna be using a library
called axios from the very very talented
Matt Zabriskie and all this is,
is it's a Ajax library that uses promises.
It's really simple, pretty lightweight.
You can use any request
library that suits your fancy,
I'm just gonna use axios cuz I like it.
So this is actually to
maintain some state now.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna add
a constructor (props) super (props)
>> Brian Holt: And then we're gonna say
this.state = omdbData: empty object.
>> Brian Holt: So we start with
an empty state, then we're gonna put
a componentDidMount() method,
componentDidMount().
And use a space there.
So this is a specific lifecycle method for
React.
So the lifecycle method in React
is that basically as components go
through different parts of their lives,
they call these different methods.
So the first one we've
already used a bunch,
which is getInitialState/Constructor
depending which one you're using.
That's the first one that always gets
called when a React component is created.
Number two is componentWillMount.
componentWillMount gets called right
before it's going to go in the dom.
You're not gonna use
componentWillMount a terrible much.
But the big key to know about
componentWillMount is that it runs
both in the browser and in node.
So if there's anything you wanna do
that needs to happen as well as in
node as it does in the browser.
You're gonna use componentWillMount.
Afterwards we're going to
use componentDidMount.
Which means it did finally
make it into the dom.
This does not get called in node and this
is the perfect place to do Ajax calls.
Right because you don't want your server
actually making calls out to different
other servers,
that doesn't make any sense.
You want all of that to be
happening in the browser.
So that's why we're gonna do all of
our Ajax in componentDidMount like
unexceptionally Ajax happens
in the componentDidMount.
I.e., you do actually end
up using componentDidMount
quite a bit because Ajax is a very common
thing when we're doing web development.
Okay, and then ultimately, lastly
there's componentWillUnmount and what
componentWillUnmount does is it runs right
before it's about to exit the dom i.e.,
this also doesn't get called in node
because that wouldn't make any sense.
ComponentWillUmount is to
do any sort of cleanup.
So if you're doing it like
any event listeners or
if you're like hooked
into other libraries or
if you need to like unsubscribe from
an observable or something like that.
This will happen at componentWillUnmount
>> Brian Holt: Basically,
a lot of times you're using
componentWillUnmount to not leak memory,
that's usually what it's used for.
Your doings any sort of
deallocations that you need to do.
Okay, so we're gonna use componentDidMount
to do an Ajax recall real quick.
So we're going to axios.get,
we're gonna do back ticks
http://www.ondbapi.com.
By the way I did contact
the the guy that runs omdbapi.
And specifically told him that we're gonna
be hammering his API very brief, and
then made a nice donation to him.
So if you appreciate him, I'd encourage
you to go make a nice donation to him
as well, cuz I don't think he makes
a terrible amount of money on it.
This.props.shows and go in and
grab this.props.params.imdbID.
Nope, not that one.
Props.ID rather, and then after the square
bracket we're gonna put imdbID, right.
So we wanna make the request
against the omdbi ID and
we wanna pass it, the ID of the show
that we wanna get information for.
This returns a promise, which I do not
have much time to explain promises.
So suffice to say, just follow along if
you don't know what promises are, and
then go look them up later.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Response
>> Brian Holt: This.setState.
omdbData response.data and
then we also want to put a catch cuz
you always want to do
that with your promises.
Error console.error, axios error and
then you just wanna log out that error.
Okay so all this is gonna do is whenever
the component finally does make it on
the page.
It's gonna reach out to the API,
say hey OMBD API,
give me all of your data about Daredevil,
about House of Cards, whatever.
And then I'm just gonna internalize
that here in my state, right.
That's all that's happening so far.
So let's actually go make
a display something from that.
So an interesting thing is that omdbData
is not always going to be there, right.
So for example, when it runs on
the server, it's not gonna be there.
And when you first render it the first
time, it's not gonna be there either.
So you have to be guarded
against that possibility.
So what we're going to do up
here is let rating If (this.
state.ondbData.imdbRating.
So if that ends up being available
to me I'm gonna say H three,
className equals video-rating,
rating with
this.state.omdbData.imdbRating.
Close H3.
Okay, so
if I have the rating available to me,
then go ahead and render this component.
Otherwise not, okay.
>> Speaker 2: There is a question of why
we're doing this here instead of inside of
an action?
>> Brian Holt: Cuz I wanted to
show the lifecycle methods.
You actually probably
would stick this in redux.
But it depends on who you're asking.
Cuz this would be more of view state
because it's an individual IMDB call.
So up to you.
>> Brian Holt: As you can see
this is all very subjective.
Year and poster.
So between these two we're
just gonna put our rating.
So if this is not there
then rating's undefined and
nothing gets rendered out here.
If there is a rating, then this gets
rated out, this gets output there.
>> Brian Holt: Right, so let's save that.
>> Brian Holt: And
hopefully that solved everything.
So now it's listening again.
Refresh your page, go into daredevil.
So I got a nice error there.
Cannot read IMDB ID of undefined.
This.state.omdb
dating
>> Brian Holt: That's a mystery.
>> Brian Holt: Where is
it actually happening?
Is that happening in the render?
No, it's happening up
here this.props.params.
id.
>> Brian Holt: Right, damn it,
that's not gonna work either.
So I have to use assign
show up here as well.
>> Brian Holt: So instead of doing this,
I'm going to say thi.assignShow.
I probably should've called it
something more descriptive than that.
That's what needs to happen.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
Cuz we
actually have to go find
the show from redux.
Yup.
So hopefully that works.
I'll come back in just a sec.
Cool.
So now you see this little 8.8 right out
there but notice like when we very first
load the page it just like
suddenly pops on the page, right.
It's not there the first
time which is kind of fun.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so I had to use
assignShow to get the correct imdbID.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
let me kind of branch and push this up.
We have one more thing, and
a half hour to talk about it.
It's kind of a heavy subject but
I really want to talk about
it cuz it's super exciting
>> Speaker 2: Any questions about Ajax or
lifecycle methods?
>> Speaker 2: One thing, I currently
use many of the lifecycle methods.
Is it smart to utilize redux and
the store instead for the Ajax calls?
>> Brian Holt: Totally up to you.
I don't have a good answer for
what you and
your app is
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I try and avoid lifecycle methods as
much as possible cuz it introduces this
concept of time to my components.
And I prefer to think of my components
as parameters in components out, and
as little time involved in
that process as possible.
But that's a personal decision and
that definitely is up to you.
There are certain things that you
must use lifecycle methods for,
like you can't get away from them,
but sometimes you can minimize them.